Update README.md (#66)
SomeoneInParticular/CART: README.md

# Case Annotation and Review Tool (CART)

## What is CART?

CART is a module for the 3D slicer program designed to help you manage  iterative analyses, allowing you to focus on implementing and running task you set out to do. Currently, it provides the following capabilities:

* Managing sequential cases (be they patients, sub-studies, or other collections of data).
* Cacheing and memory management.
* User tracking.

A number of features are currently in progress as well, and will be available upon CART's full release:

* Custom task creation and registration.
* Case pre-fetching/deferred loading.
* Per-user + per-task configurations.

## Setting up CART

### Prerequisites

- Slicer v5.8 (other versions might work, without guarantee)

### Installation

> Clone this repository somewhere can easily access it. You can do this one of two ways:

Reviewer: Resolved w/ [c29a628](https://github.com/SomeoneInParticular/CART/pull/66/commits/c29a628c4a45a9cc9e49345302a3b4dfe7adca5b)

1. Downloading the repository from GitHub:
   1. Open the [CART](https://github.com/SomeoneInParticular/CART) repository in your browser.
   2. Click the green "<> Code" drop-down button on the top-right of of the page

>    3. Select "Download ZIP"

Reviewer: Definitely; need to look into a proper release strategy before implementing this though, so going to kick this down the road to a future PR.

>    4. Choose where you want the resulting file to be placed in the resulting popup

Reviewer: Good catch

>    4. Choose where you want the resulting file to be placed in the resulting popup

Reviewer: Resolved w/ [c29a628](https://github.com/SomeoneInParticular/CART/pull/66/commits/c29a628c4a45a9cc9e49345302a3b4dfe7adca5b)

## Setting up CART

### Prerequisites

- Slicer v5.8 (other versions might work, without guarantee)

### Installation

Clone this repository somewhere can easily access it. You can do this one of two ways:

1. Downloading the repository from GitHub:
   1. Open the [CART](https://github.com/SomeoneInParticular/CART) repository in your browser.
   2. Click the green "<> Code" drop-down button on the top-right of of the page
   <img width="948" height="144" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9e98c9b5-7039-4e1a-bea8-a97c63ee73bd" />

   3. Select "Download ZIP"
   <img width="432" height="349" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0a1360dd-89fe-4cbb-8e46-c5be4282e5aa" />

   4. Choose where you want the resulting file to be placed in the resulting popup
   5. Wait for the download to complete
   6. Once complete, navigate to the `CART-main.zip` file and unzip it (on most OS systems, double-clicking on the file should tell you how to do this)

2. Cloning the repository via `git`:
   1. Open a terminal in a directory of your choice
   2. Run the following command to clone the current `CART` repository:
    ~~~

>     git clone git@github.com:SomeoneInParticular/CART.git

Reviewer 2: To unify the clone and `.zip` instructions (and to make navigating to `CART/CART/CART.py` easier), we could instruct users to clone `CART` to `CART-main`?

```suggestion
    git clone git@github.com:SomeoneInParticular/CART.git CART-main
```

    ~~~

### Registering CART in Slicer

> 0. Open the cloned CART directory you created prior in a file browser

Reviewer 2: We should maybe change this, since we offer options for both cloning and downloading the `.zip`?

Also, since we later ask users to click and drag `CART.py`, we should perhaps tell users to navigate to the parent folder for this file.

```suggestion
0. Open a file browser window and navigate to the downloaded `CART-main` directory. Then, navigate to the `CART` sub-directory, which should contain a `CART.py` file.
```

Reviewer: Good catch; thank you!

1. Start up Slicer
2. Select `Edit` (top left) > `Application Settings`
<img width="1066" height="154" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1f2c4d4f-ce10-46fd-8165-09c0df87a7e6" />

3. In the "settings" popup, select `Modules` from the left sidebar
<img width="865" height="650" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ea9d4013-b77b-47ef-84b5-f4d38fd7f044" />

4. Click and drag `CART.py` from the file browser into the "Additional module paths" panel.
5. Click "OK"; Slicer should prompt you that it needs to restart.
<img width="395" height="169" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/76c1d8c4-bd3a-40d9-b674-01d7787a2a44" />

6. Restart Slicer

### [Optional] Setting CART as your Default Module

1. Start Slicer
2. Select `Edit` (top left) > `Application Settings`
3. In the "settings" popup, select `Modules` from the left sidebar
4. Select `CART` from the dropdown button labelled "Default startup module"
<img width="506" height="760" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/66a360ff-8ad6-406e-a498-7e1ff1ae6f20" />

## Using CART

To run CART, you must specify 4 things prior to beginning:

> ### User

Reviewer 2: I think saying "4 things" right away might add too much cognitive load for users? Since, they are holding the idea of this 4-item checklist in their head, but each of the subsections is quite long.

I think maybe it would be easier to present the setup steps (users, cohort, etc.) as a sequential set of steps for the user to follow. Something like this:

```Markdown
## Using CART

To use CART, simply create a user profile and a cohort file, then define the path to your data:

### Creating a user profile
### Creating a cohort file
### Defining the data path

Once these steps are complete, you can click 'Confirm' to begin your analyses.
```

I was also thinking that we could omit the notion of a "Task" as a 4th step, too? Since, choosing a task is effectively done by choosing the columns in the cohort file. So, really, if the user understands cohort files, they'll naturally have an understanding of different tasks, too.

Instead, we could just point to the sample tasks from the `### Cohort` section? And say something like "The cohort file defines which data files will be processed, and which processing steps will be applied to those data files. For an example of how to set up your cohort file to perform different analyses, check out the following examples:"

Reviewer: Unfortunately, `Task` can't be omitted, as its one of the select-able options. This is intentional, as CART is designed to allow for the registration of arbitrary tasks for iteration sake, some of which might be slightly tweaked versions of another task which task the same inputs.

I do agree, though, I will revise this to be less overbearing.

Reviewer: Just pushed a batch of changes; should resolved as of [9b77de2](https://github.com/SomeoneInParticular/CART/pull/66/commits/9b77de2c9ea0786f19a98ebe4172ab6990f49c6a), though I'll leave it open until it has been sanity checked.

* `{Slicer Installation Directory}/bin/Python`: exposes that installations versions of VTK, CTK, and QT, along with slicer's own utilities.
* `{This Directory}/CART`; exposes CARTLib and its contents.

## Basic Structure

- **CARTLib**: The main library containing the base classes for defining the standard iterator and Task Workflow.
- **CARTLib/Task**: Contains the base classes for defining a Task.
  - A task is defined as an actionable set of steps that can be taken by a specific user.
  - Tasks Do not load data they are only used to define the GUI and support the user in performing a specific action.

>   - Tasks are at the "DataUnit" level, meaning that they are specific to a single DataIO object 

Reviewer: Agreed; will start on that once this PR is completed.
